docs/automation/cron-jobs.md, before:

---
summary: "Cron jobs + wakeups for the Gateway scheduler"
read_when:
  - Scheduling background jobs or wakeups
  - Wiring automation that should run with or alongside heartbeats
  - Deciding between heartbeat and cron for scheduled tasks
title: "Cron Jobs"
---

# Cron jobs (Gateway scheduler)

> **Cron vs Heartbeat?** See [Cron vs Heartbeat](/automation/cron-vs-heartbeat) for guidance on when to use each.

Cron is the Gateway’s built-in scheduler. It persists jobs, wakes the agent at
the right time, and can optionally deliver output back to a chat.

If you want _“run this every morning”_ or _“poke the agent in 20 minutes”_,
cron is the mechanism.

## TL;DR

- Cron runs **inside the Gateway** (not inside the model).
- Jobs persist under `~/.openclaw/cron/` so restarts don’t lose schedules.
- Two execution styles:
  - **Main session**: enqueue a system event, then run on the next heartbeat.
  - **Isolated**: run a dedicated agent turn in `cron:<jobId>`, with a delivery mode (legacy summary, announce, full output, or none).
- Wakeups are first-class: a job can request “wake now” vs “next heartbeat”.

## Quick start (actionable)

Create a one-shot reminder, verify it exists, and run it immediately:

```bash
openclaw cron add \
  --name "Reminder" \
  --at "2026-02-01T16:00:00Z" \
  --session main \
  --system-event "Reminder: check the cron docs draft" \
  --wake now \
  --delete-after-run

openclaw cron list
openclaw cron run <job-id> --force
openclaw cron runs --id <job-id>
```

Schedule a recurring isolated job with delivery:

```bash
openclaw cron add \
  --name "Morning brief" \
  --cron "0 7 * * *" \
  --tz "America/Los_Angeles" \
  --session isolated \
  --message "Summarize overnight updates." \
  --announce \
  --channel slack \
  --to "channel:C1234567890"
```

## Tool-call equivalents (Gateway cron tool)

For the canonical JSON shapes and examples, see [JSON schema for tool calls](/automation/cron-jobs#json-schema-for-tool-calls).

## Where cron jobs are stored

Cron jobs are persisted on the Gateway host at `~/.openclaw/cron/jobs.json` by default.
The Gateway loads the file into memory and writes it back on changes, so manual edits
are only safe when the Gateway is stopped. Prefer `openclaw cron add/edit` or the cron
tool call API for changes.

## Beginner-friendly overview

Think of a cron job as: **when** to run + **what** to do.

1. **Choose a schedule**
   - One-shot reminder → `schedule.kind = "at"` (CLI: `--at`)
   - Repeating job → `schedule.kind = "every"` or `schedule.kind = "cron"`
   - If your ISO timestamp omits a timezone, it is treated as **UTC**.

2. **Choose where it runs**
   - `sessionTarget: "main"` → run during the next heartbeat with main context.
   - `sessionTarget: "isolated"` → run a dedicated agent turn in `cron:<jobId>`.

3. **Choose the payload**
   - Main session → `payload.kind = "systemEvent"`
   - Isolated session → `payload.kind = "agentTurn"`

Optional: `deleteAfterRun: true` removes successful one-shot jobs from the store.

## Concepts

### Jobs

A cron job is a stored record with:

- a **schedule** (when it should run),
- a **payload** (what it should do),
- optional **delivery mode** (announce, full output, or none).
- optional **agent binding** (`agentId`): run the job under a specific agent; if
  missing or unknown, the gateway falls back to the default agent.

Jobs are identified by a stable `jobId` (used by CLI/Gateway APIs).
In agent tool calls, `jobId` is canonical; legacy `id` is accepted for compatibility.
Jobs can optionally auto-delete after a successful one-shot run via `deleteAfterRun: true`.

### Schedules

Cron supports three schedule kinds:

- `at`: one-shot timestamp (ms since epoch). Gateway accepts ISO 8601 and coerces to UTC.
- `every`: fixed interval (ms).
- `cron`: 5-field cron expression with optional IANA timezone.

Cron expressions use `croner`. If a timezone is omitted, the Gateway host’s
local timezone is used.

### Main vs isolated execution

#### Main session jobs (system events)

Main jobs enqueue a system event and optionally wake the heartbeat runner.
They must use `payload.kind = "systemEvent"`.

- `wakeMode: "next-heartbeat"` (default): event waits for the next scheduled heartbeat.
- `wakeMode: "now"`: event triggers an immediate heartbeat run.

This is the best fit when you want the normal heartbeat prompt + main-session context.
See [Heartbeat](/gateway/heartbeat).

#### Isolated jobs (dedicated cron sessions)

Isolated jobs run a dedicated agent turn in session `cron:<jobId>`.

Key behaviors:

- Prompt is prefixed with `[cron:<jobId> <job name>]` for traceability.
- Each run starts a **fresh session id** (no prior conversation carry-over).
- Legacy behavior (no `delivery` field): a summary is posted to the main session (prefix `Cron`, configurable).
- `delivery.mode` (isolated-only) chooses what happens instead of the legacy summary:
  - `announce`: subagent-style summary delivered immediately to a chat.
  - `deliver`: full agent output delivered immediately to a chat.
  - `none`: internal only (no main summary, no delivery).
- `wakeMode: "now"` triggers an immediate heartbeat after posting the **legacy** summary.

Use isolated jobs for noisy, frequent, or "background chores" that shouldn't spam
your main chat history.

### Payload shapes (what runs)

Two payload kinds are supported:

- `systemEvent`: main-session only, routed through the heartbeat prompt.
- `agentTurn`: isolated-session only, runs a dedicated agent turn.

Common `agentTurn` fields:

- `message`: required text prompt.
- `model` / `thinking`: optional overrides (see below).
- `timeoutSeconds`: optional timeout override.

Delivery config (isolated jobs only):

- `delivery.mode`: `none` | `announce` | `deliver`.
- `delivery.channel`: `last` or a specific channel.
- `delivery.to`: channel-specific target (phone/chat/channel id).
- `delivery.bestEffort`: avoid failing the job if delivery fails (deliver mode).

Legacy delivery fields (still accepted when `delivery` is omitted):

- `payload.deliver`: `true` to send output to a channel target.
- `payload.channel`: `last` or a specific channel.
- `payload.to`: channel-specific target (phone/chat/channel id).
- `payload.bestEffortDeliver`: avoid failing the job if delivery fails.

Isolation options (only for `session=isolated`):

- `postToMainPrefix` (CLI: `--post-prefix`): prefix for the system event in main.
- `postToMainMode`: `summary` (default) or `full`.
- `postToMainMaxChars`: max chars when `postToMainMode=full` (default 8000).

Note: isolation post-to-main settings apply to legacy jobs (no `delivery` field). If `delivery` is set, the legacy summary is skipped.

### Model and thinking overrides

Isolated jobs (`agentTurn`) can override the model and thinking level:

- `model`: Provider/model string (e.g., `anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-20250514`) or alias (e.g., `opus`)
- `thinking`: Thinking level (`off`, `minimal`, `low`, `medium`, `high`, `xhigh`; GPT-5.2 + Codex models only)

Note: You can set `model` on main-session jobs too, but it changes the shared main
session model. We recommend model overrides only for isolated jobs to avoid
unexpected context shifts.

Resolution priority:

1. Job payload override (highest)
2. Hook-specific defaults (e.g., `hooks.gmail.model`)
3. Agent config default

### Delivery (channel + target)

Isolated jobs can deliver output to a channel via the top-level `delivery` config:

- `delivery.mode`: `announce` (subagent-style summary) or `deliver` (full output).
- `delivery.channel`: `whatsapp` / `telegram` / `discord` / `slack` / `mattermost` (plugin) / `signal` / `imessage` / `last`.
- `delivery.to`: channel-specific recipient target.

Delivery config is only valid for isolated jobs (`sessionTarget: "isolated"`).

If `delivery.channel` or `delivery.to` is omitted, cron can fall back to the main session’s
“last route” (the last place the agent replied).

Legacy behavior (no `delivery` field):

- If `payload.to` is set, cron auto-delivers the agent’s final output even if `payload.deliver` is omitted.
- Use `payload.deliver: true` when you want last-route delivery without an explicit `to`.
- Use `payload.deliver: false` to keep output internal even if a `to` is present.

If `delivery` is set, it overrides legacy payload delivery fields and skips the legacy main-session summary.

Target format reminders:

- Slack/Discord/Mattermost (plugin) targets should use explicit prefixes (e.g. `channel:<id>`, `user:<id>`) to avoid ambiguity.
- Telegram topics should use the `:topic:` form (see below).

#### Telegram delivery targets (topics / forum threads)

Telegram supports forum topics via `message_thread_id`. For cron delivery, you can encode
the topic/thread into the `to` field:

- `-1001234567890` (chat id only)
- `-1001234567890:topic:123` (preferred: explicit topic marker)
- `-1001234567890:123` (shorthand: numeric suffix)

Prefixed targets like `telegram:...` / `telegram:group:...` are also accepted:

- `telegram:group:-1001234567890:topic:123`

## JSON schema for tool calls

Use these shapes when calling Gateway `cron.*` tools directly (agent tool calls or RPC).
CLI flags accept human durations like `20m`, but tool calls use epoch milliseconds for
`atMs` and `everyMs` (ISO timestamps are accepted for `at` times).

### cron.add params

One-shot, main session job (system event):

```json
{
  "name": "Reminder",
  "schedule": { "kind": "at", "atMs": 1738262400000 },
  "sessionTarget": "main",
  "wakeMode": "now",
  "payload": { "kind": "systemEvent", "text": "Reminder text" },
  "deleteAfterRun": true
}
```

Recurring, isolated job with delivery:

```json
{
  "name": "Morning brief",
  "schedule": { "kind": "cron", "expr": "0 7 * * *", "tz": "America/Los_Angeles" },
  "sessionTarget": "isolated",
  "wakeMode": "next-heartbeat",
  "payload": {
    "kind": "agentTurn",
    "message": "Summarize overnight updates."
  },
  "delivery": {
    "mode": "announce",
    "channel": "slack",
    "to": "channel:C1234567890",
    "bestEffort": true
  }
}
```

Notes:

- `schedule.kind`: `at` (`atMs`), `every` (`everyMs`), or `cron` (`expr`, optional `tz`).
- `atMs` and `everyMs` are epoch milliseconds.
- `sessionTarget` must be `"main"` or `"isolated"` and must match `payload.kind`.
- Optional fields: `agentId`, `description`, `enabled`, `deleteAfterRun`, `delivery`, `isolation`.
- `wakeMode` defaults to `"next-heartbeat"` when omitted.

### cron.update params

```json
{
  "jobId": "job-123",
  "patch": {
    "enabled": false,
    "schedule": { "kind": "every", "everyMs": 3600000 }
  }
}
```

Notes:

- `jobId` is canonical; `id` is accepted for compatibility.
- Use `agentId: null` in the patch to clear an agent binding.

### cron.run and cron.remove params

```json
{ "jobId": "job-123", "mode": "force" }
```

```json
{ "jobId": "job-123" }
```

## Storage & history

- Job store: `~/.openclaw/cron/jobs.json` (Gateway-managed JSON).
- Run history: `~/.openclaw/cron/runs/<jobId>.jsonl` (JSONL, auto-pruned).
- Override store path: `cron.store` in config.

## Configuration

```json5
{
  cron: {
    enabled: true, // default true
    store: "~/.openclaw/cron/jobs.json",
    maxConcurrentRuns: 1, // default 1
  },
}
```

Disable cron entirely:

- `cron.enabled: false` (config)
- `OPENCLAW_SKIP_CRON=1` (env)

## CLI quickstart

One-shot reminder (UTC ISO, auto-delete after success):

```bash
openclaw cron add \
  --name "Send reminder" \
  --at "2026-01-12T18:00:00Z" \
  --session main \
  --system-event "Reminder: submit expense report." \
  --wake now \
  --delete-after-run
```

One-shot reminder (main session, wake immediately):

```bash
openclaw cron add \
  --name "Calendar check" \
  --at "20m" \
  --session main \
  --system-event "Next heartbeat: check calendar." \
  --wake now
```

Recurring isolated job (announce to WhatsApp):

```bash
openclaw cron add \
  --name "Morning status" \
  --cron "0 7 * * *" \
  --tz "America/Los_Angeles" \
  --session isolated \
  --message "Summarize inbox + calendar for today." \
  --announce \
  --channel whatsapp \
  --to "+15551234567"
```

Recurring isolated job (deliver to a Telegram topic):

```bash
openclaw cron add \
  --name "Nightly summary (topic)" \
  --cron "0 22 * * *" \
  --tz "America/Los_Angeles" \
  --session isolated \
  --message "Summarize today; send to the nightly topic." \
  --deliver \
  --channel telegram \
  --to "-1001234567890:topic:123"
```

Isolated job with model and thinking override:

```bash
openclaw cron add \
  --name "Deep analysis" \
  --cron "0 6 * * 1" \
  --tz "America/Los_Angeles" \
  --session isolated \
  --message "Weekly deep analysis of project progress." \
  --model "opus" \
  --thinking high \
  --deliver \
  --channel whatsapp \
  --to "+15551234567"
```

Agent selection (multi-agent setups):

```bash
# Pin a job to agent "ops" (falls back to default if that agent is missing)
openclaw cron add --name "Ops sweep" --cron "0 6 * * *" --session isolated --message "Check ops queue" --agent ops

# Switch or clear the agent on an existing job
openclaw cron edit <jobId> --agent ops
openclaw cron edit <jobId> --clear-agent
```

Manual run (debug):

```bash
openclaw cron run <jobId> --force
```

Edit an existing job (patch fields):

```bash
openclaw cron edit <jobId> \
  --message "Updated prompt" \
  --model "opus" \
  --thinking low
```

Run history:

```bash
openclaw cron runs --id <jobId> --limit 50
```

Immediate system event without creating a job:

```bash
openclaw system event --mode now --text "Next heartbeat: check battery."
```

## Gateway API surface

- `cron.list`, `cron.status`, `cron.add`, `cron.update`, `cron.remove`
- `cron.run` (force or due), `cron.runs`
  For immediate system events without a job, use [`openclaw system event`](/cli/system).

## Troubleshooting

### “Nothing runs”

- Check cron is enabled: `cron.enabled` and `OPENCLAW_SKIP_CRON`.
- Check the Gateway is running continuously (cron runs inside the Gateway process).
- For `cron` schedules: confirm timezone (`--tz`) vs the host timezone.

### Telegram delivers to the wrong place

- For forum topics, use `-100…:topic:<id>` so it’s explicit and unambiguous.
- If you see `telegram:...` prefixes in logs or stored “last route” targets, that’s normal;
  cron delivery accepts them and still parses topic IDs correctly.

Commit message:

feat(cron): default isolated jobs to announce delivery and enhance scheduling options
- Updated isolated cron jobs to default to `announce` delivery mode, improving user experience.
- Enhanced scheduling options to accept ISO 8601 timestamps for `schedule.at`, while still supporting epoch milliseconds.
- Refined documentation to clarify delivery modes and scheduling formats.
- Adjusted related CLI commands and UI components to reflect these changes, ensuring consistency across the platform.
- Improved handling of legacy delivery fields for backward compatibility.

This update streamlines the configuration of isolated jobs, making it easier for users to manage job outputs and schedules.

docs/automation/cron-jobs.md, after:

---
summary: "Cron jobs + wakeups for the Gateway scheduler"
read_when:
  - Scheduling background jobs or wakeups
  - Wiring automation that should run with or alongside heartbeats
  - Deciding between heartbeat and cron for scheduled tasks
title: "Cron Jobs"
---

# Cron jobs (Gateway scheduler)

> **Cron vs Heartbeat?** See [Cron vs Heartbeat](/automation/cron-vs-heartbeat) for guidance on when to use each.

Cron is the Gateway’s built-in scheduler. It persists jobs, wakes the agent at
the right time, and can optionally deliver output back to a chat.

If you want _“run this every morning”_ or _“poke the agent in 20 minutes”_,
cron is the mechanism.

## TL;DR

- Cron runs **inside the Gateway** (not inside the model).
- Jobs persist under `~/.openclaw/cron/` so restarts don’t lose schedules.
- Two execution styles:
  - **Main session**: enqueue a system event, then run on the next heartbeat.
  - **Isolated**: run a dedicated agent turn in `cron:<jobId>`, with delivery (announce by default, full output or none; legacy main summary still supported).
- Wakeups are first-class: a job can request “wake now” vs “next heartbeat”.

## Quick start (actionable)

Create a one-shot reminder, verify it exists, and run it immediately:

```bash
openclaw cron add \
  --name "Reminder" \
  --at "2026-02-01T16:00:00Z" \
  --session main \
  --system-event "Reminder: check the cron docs draft" \
  --wake now \
  --delete-after-run

openclaw cron list
openclaw cron run <job-id> --force
openclaw cron runs --id <job-id>
```

Schedule a recurring isolated job with delivery:

```bash
openclaw cron add \
  --name "Morning brief" \
  --cron "0 7 * * *" \
  --tz "America/Los_Angeles" \
  --session isolated \
  --message "Summarize overnight updates." \
  --announce \
  --channel slack \
  --to "channel:C1234567890"
```

## Tool-call equivalents (Gateway cron tool)

For the canonical JSON shapes and examples, see [JSON schema for tool calls](/automation/cron-jobs#json-schema-for-tool-calls).

## Where cron jobs are stored

Cron jobs are persisted on the Gateway host at `~/.openclaw/cron/jobs.json` by default.
The Gateway loads the file into memory and writes it back on changes, so manual edits
are only safe when the Gateway is stopped. Prefer `openclaw cron add/edit` or the cron
tool call API for changes.

## Beginner-friendly overview

Think of a cron job as: **when** to run + **what** to do.

1. **Choose a schedule**
   - One-shot reminder → `schedule.kind = "at"` (CLI: `--at`)
   - Repeating job → `schedule.kind = "every"` or `schedule.kind = "cron"`
   - If your ISO timestamp omits a timezone, it is treated as **UTC**.

2. **Choose where it runs**
   - `sessionTarget: "main"` → run during the next heartbeat with main context.
   - `sessionTarget: "isolated"` → run a dedicated agent turn in `cron:<jobId>`.

3. **Choose the payload**
   - Main session → `payload.kind = "systemEvent"`
   - Isolated session → `payload.kind = "agentTurn"`

Optional: `deleteAfterRun: true` removes successful one-shot jobs from the store.

## Concepts

### Jobs

A cron job is a stored record with:

- a **schedule** (when it should run),
- a **payload** (what it should do),
- optional **delivery mode** (announce, full output, or none).
- optional **agent binding** (`agentId`): run the job under a specific agent; if
  missing or unknown, the gateway falls back to the default agent.

Jobs are identified by a stable `jobId` (used by CLI/Gateway APIs).
In agent tool calls, `jobId` is canonical; legacy `id` is accepted for compatibility.
Jobs can optionally auto-delete after a successful one-shot run via `deleteAfterRun: true`.

### Schedules

Cron supports three schedule kinds:

- `at`: one-shot timestamp. Prefer ISO 8601 via `schedule.at`; `atMs` (epoch ms) is also accepted.
- `every`: fixed interval (ms).
- `cron`: 5-field cron expression with optional IANA timezone.

Cron expressions use `croner`. If a timezone is omitted, the Gateway host’s
local timezone is used.

### Main vs isolated execution

#### Main session jobs (system events)

Main jobs enqueue a system event and optionally wake the heartbeat runner.
They must use `payload.kind = "systemEvent"`.

- `wakeMode: "next-heartbeat"` (default): event waits for the next scheduled heartbeat.
- `wakeMode: "now"`: event triggers an immediate heartbeat run.

This is the best fit when you want the normal heartbeat prompt + main-session context.
See [Heartbeat](/gateway/heartbeat).

#### Isolated jobs (dedicated cron sessions)

Isolated jobs run a dedicated agent turn in session `cron:<jobId>`.

Key behaviors:

- Prompt is prefixed with `[cron:<jobId> <job name>]` for traceability.
- Each run starts a **fresh session id** (no prior conversation carry-over).
- Default behavior: if `delivery` is omitted, isolated jobs announce a summary immediately (`delivery.mode = "announce"`), unless legacy isolation settings or legacy payload delivery fields are provided.
- Legacy behavior: jobs with legacy isolation settings, legacy payload delivery fields, or older stored jobs without `delivery` post a summary to the main session (prefix `Cron`, configurable).
- `delivery.mode` (isolated-only) chooses what happens instead of the legacy summary:
  - `announce`: subagent-style summary delivered immediately to a chat.
  - `deliver`: full agent output delivered immediately to a chat.
  - `none`: internal only (no main summary, no delivery).
- `wakeMode: "now"` only triggers an immediate heartbeat when using the legacy main-summary path.

Use isolated jobs for noisy, frequent, or "background chores" that shouldn't spam
your main chat history.

### Payload shapes (what runs)

Two payload kinds are supported:

- `systemEvent`: main-session only, routed through the heartbeat prompt.
- `agentTurn`: isolated-session only, runs a dedicated agent turn.

Common `agentTurn` fields:

- `message`: required text prompt.
- `model` / `thinking`: optional overrides (see below).
- `timeoutSeconds`: optional timeout override.

Delivery config (isolated jobs only):

- `delivery.mode`: `none` | `announce` | `deliver`.
- `delivery.channel`: `last` or a specific channel.
- `delivery.to`: channel-specific target (phone/chat/channel id).
- `delivery.bestEffort`: avoid failing the job if delivery fails (deliver mode).

If `delivery` is omitted for isolated jobs, OpenClaw defaults to `announce` unless legacy isolation
settings are present.

Legacy delivery fields (still accepted when `delivery` is omitted):

- `payload.deliver`: `true` to send output to a channel target.
- `payload.channel`: `last` or a specific channel.
- `payload.to`: channel-specific target (phone/chat/channel id).
- `payload.bestEffortDeliver`: avoid failing the job if delivery fails.

Isolation options (only for `session=isolated`):

- `postToMainPrefix` (CLI: `--post-prefix`): prefix for the system event in main.
- `postToMainMode`: `summary` (default) or `full`.
- `postToMainMaxChars`: max chars when `postToMainMode=full` (default 8000).

Note: setting isolation post-to-main options opts into the legacy main-summary path (no `delivery` field). If `delivery` is set, the legacy summary is skipped.

### Model and thinking overrides

Isolated jobs (`agentTurn`) can override the model and thinking level:

- `model`: Provider/model string (e.g., `anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-20250514`) or alias (e.g., `opus`)
- `thinking`: Thinking level (`off`, `minimal`, `low`, `medium`, `high`, `xhigh`; GPT-5.2 + Codex models only)

Note: You can set `model` on main-session jobs too, but it changes the shared main
session model. We recommend model overrides only for isolated jobs to avoid
unexpected context shifts.

Resolution priority:

1. Job payload override (highest)
2. Hook-specific defaults (e.g., `hooks.gmail.model`)
3. Agent config default

### Delivery (channel + target)

Isolated jobs can deliver output to a channel via the top-level `delivery` config:

- `delivery.mode`: `announce` (subagent-style summary) or `deliver` (full output).
- `delivery.channel`: `whatsapp` / `telegram` / `discord` / `slack` / `mattermost` (plugin) / `signal` / `imessage` / `last`.
- `delivery.to`: channel-specific recipient target.

Delivery config is only valid for isolated jobs (`sessionTarget: "isolated"`).

If `delivery.channel` or `delivery.to` is omitted, cron can fall back to the main session’s
“last route” (the last place the agent replied).

Legacy behavior (no `delivery` field with legacy isolation settings or older jobs):

- If `payload.to` is set, cron auto-delivers the agent’s final output even if `payload.deliver` is omitted.
- Use `payload.deliver: true` when you want last-route delivery without an explicit `to`.
- Use `payload.deliver: false` to keep output internal even if a `to` is present.

If `delivery` is set, it overrides legacy payload delivery fields and skips the legacy main-session summary.

Target format reminders:

- Slack/Discord/Mattermost (plugin) targets should use explicit prefixes (e.g. `channel:<id>`, `user:<id>`) to avoid ambiguity.
- Telegram topics should use the `:topic:` form (see below).

#### Telegram delivery targets (topics / forum threads)

Telegram supports forum topics via `message_thread_id`. For cron delivery, you can encode
the topic/thread into the `to` field:

- `-1001234567890` (chat id only)
- `-1001234567890:topic:123` (preferred: explicit topic marker)
- `-1001234567890:123` (shorthand: numeric suffix)

Prefixed targets like `telegram:...` / `telegram:group:...` are also accepted:

- `telegram:group:-1001234567890:topic:123`

## JSON schema for tool calls

Use these shapes when calling Gateway `cron.*` tools directly (agent tool calls or RPC).
CLI flags accept human durations like `20m`, but tool calls should use an ISO 8601 string
for `schedule.at` (preferred) or epoch milliseconds for `atMs` and `everyMs`.

### cron.add params

One-shot, main session job (system event):

```json
{
  "name": "Reminder",
  "schedule": { "kind": "at", "at": "2026-02-01T16:00:00Z" },
  "sessionTarget": "main",
  "wakeMode": "now",
  "payload": { "kind": "systemEvent", "text": "Reminder text" },
  "deleteAfterRun": true
}
```

Recurring, isolated job with delivery:

```json
{
  "name": "Morning brief",
  "schedule": { "kind": "cron", "expr": "0 7 * * *", "tz": "America/Los_Angeles" },
  "sessionTarget": "isolated",
  "wakeMode": "next-heartbeat",
  "payload": {
    "kind": "agentTurn",
    "message": "Summarize overnight updates."
  },
  "delivery": {
    "mode": "announce",
    "channel": "slack",
    "to": "channel:C1234567890",
    "bestEffort": true
  }
}
```

Notes:

- `schedule.kind`: `at` (`at` or `atMs`), `every` (`everyMs`), or `cron` (`expr`, optional `tz`).
- `schedule.at` accepts ISO 8601 (timezone optional; treated as UTC when omitted).
- `atMs` and `everyMs` are epoch milliseconds.
- `sessionTarget` must be `"main"` or `"isolated"` and must match `payload.kind`.
- Optional fields: `agentId`, `description`, `enabled`, `deleteAfterRun`, `delivery`, `isolation`.
- `wakeMode` defaults to `"next-heartbeat"` when omitted.

### cron.update params

```json
{
  "jobId": "job-123",
  "patch": {
    "enabled": false,
    "schedule": { "kind": "every", "everyMs": 3600000 }
  }
}
```

Notes:

- `jobId` is canonical; `id` is accepted for compatibility.
- Use `agentId: null` in the patch to clear an agent binding.

### cron.run and cron.remove params

```json
{ "jobId": "job-123", "mode": "force" }
```

```json
{ "jobId": "job-123" }
```

## Storage & history

- Job store: `~/.openclaw/cron/jobs.json` (Gateway-managed JSON).
- Run history: `~/.openclaw/cron/runs/<jobId>.jsonl` (JSONL, auto-pruned).
- Override store path: `cron.store` in config.

## Configuration

```json5
{
  cron: {
    enabled: true, // default true
    store: "~/.openclaw/cron/jobs.json",
    maxConcurrentRuns: 1, // default 1
  },
}
```

Disable cron entirely:

- `cron.enabled: false` (config)
- `OPENCLAW_SKIP_CRON=1` (env)

## CLI quickstart

One-shot reminder (UTC ISO, auto-delete after success):

```bash
openclaw cron add \
  --name "Send reminder" \
  --at "2026-01-12T18:00:00Z" \
  --session main \
  --system-event "Reminder: submit expense report." \
  --wake now \
  --delete-after-run
```

One-shot reminder (main session, wake immediately):

```bash
openclaw cron add \
  --name "Calendar check" \
  --at "20m" \
  --session main \
  --system-event "Next heartbeat: check calendar." \
  --wake now
```

Recurring isolated job (announce to WhatsApp):

```bash
openclaw cron add \
  --name "Morning status" \
  --cron "0 7 * * *" \
  --tz "America/Los_Angeles" \
  --session isolated \
  --message "Summarize inbox + calendar for today." \
  --announce \
  --channel whatsapp \
  --to "+15551234567"
```

Recurring isolated job (deliver to a Telegram topic):

```bash
openclaw cron add \
  --name "Nightly summary (topic)" \
  --cron "0 22 * * *" \
  --tz "America/Los_Angeles" \
  --session isolated \
  --message "Summarize today; send to the nightly topic." \
  --deliver \
  --channel telegram \
  --to "-1001234567890:topic:123"
```

Isolated job with model and thinking override:

```bash
openclaw cron add \
  --name "Deep analysis" \
  --cron "0 6 * * 1" \
  --tz "America/Los_Angeles" \
  --session isolated \
  --message "Weekly deep analysis of project progress." \
  --model "opus" \
  --thinking high \
  --deliver \
  --channel whatsapp \
  --to "+15551234567"
```

Agent selection (multi-agent setups):

```bash
# Pin a job to agent "ops" (falls back to default if that agent is missing)
openclaw cron add --name "Ops sweep" --cron "0 6 * * *" --session isolated --message "Check ops queue" --agent ops

# Switch or clear the agent on an existing job
openclaw cron edit <jobId> --agent ops
openclaw cron edit <jobId> --clear-agent
```

Manual run (debug):

```bash
openclaw cron run <jobId> --force
```

Edit an existing job (patch fields):

```bash
openclaw cron edit <jobId> \
  --message "Updated prompt" \
  --model "opus" \
  --thinking low
```

Run history:

```bash
openclaw cron runs --id <jobId> --limit 50
```

Immediate system event without creating a job:

```bash
openclaw system event --mode now --text "Next heartbeat: check battery."
```

## Gateway API surface

- `cron.list`, `cron.status`, `cron.add`, `cron.update`, `cron.remove`
- `cron.run` (force or due), `cron.runs`
  For immediate system events without a job, use [`openclaw system event`](/cli/system).

## Troubleshooting

### “Nothing runs”

- Check cron is enabled: `cron.enabled` and `OPENCLAW_SKIP_CRON`.
- Check the Gateway is running continuously (cron runs inside the Gateway process).
- For `cron` schedules: confirm timezone (`--tz`) vs the host timezone.

### Telegram delivers to the wrong place

- For forum topics, use `-100…:topic:<id>` so it’s explicit and unambiguous.
- If you see `telegram:...` prefixes in logs or stored “last route” targets, that’s normal;
  cron delivery accepts them and still parses topic IDs correctly.
